This playbook and the associated inventory file are in YAML format, and were written to keep me 
from pulling out my remaining imaginary hair after breaking my Linux install for the umpteenth
time by quickly reinstalling all my favorite packages.

To use it, you do have to install ansible first using

  sudo apt install ansible
  
then

  ansible-galaxy collection install community.general
  
  (This collection includes a plugin to make ansible talk to snap.)

then run the playbook using
  
  ansible-playbook -K -i post-install-pkgs.yml post-install.yml

The -K option prompts for your password because installing stuff needs sudo, and the -i
option specifies a particular inventory file (post-install-pkgs.yml) to be fed to the 
playbook (post-install.yml).

post-install-pkgs.yml is an inventory file with applications grouped by installer type.
In my case, apt, snap, and one I get from the web because it isn't available elsewhere. The
all:, children:, hosts:, and ungrouped: tags are all YAML/Ansible conventions that I don't 
reference but must exist for this thing to work. Don't ask me why yet. =P

The post-install.yml file invokes sudo and calls apt to update and upgrade all installed 
packages. It then checks to ensure that the inventory file is out there, then loops through
each {{ item }} in the inventory {{ groups... }} and attempts to install each package (if they
aren't {{ state: present }} already. The state is omitted in the Snap section because
'present' is the default state.  It might be the default for Apt too. I didn't check.
Lastly, the oddball application I can't get from a repo is downloaded and installed. If you
call the deb= property with a url that includes ://, it just assumes you want to download
and install it... 'cuz why not? The internet is pretty safe, right? 

After everything is reinstalled and I've made a soothing cup of tea to go with my Xanax,
the script adds a bunch of aliases to my ~/.bashrc file so that I never have to type stuff 
like 'sudo apt-get install' or 'sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrage' again. Because holy
crap is the Linux command line long-winded sometimes.

And lastly, it adds me to the vboxusers group because Oracle can't make up their GD minds
about how to make USB devices work in virtual machines. >.<

Feel free to download this stuff and make it your own. Or not! IDRC.
BTW - this passes the ansible-playbook --syntax-check -i post-install-pkgs.yml post-install.yml
test, as well as the ansible-inventory -i post-install-pkgs.yml --list test. I'm using 
Ansible 2.10.8, and I have no idea if it will work with anything before that, so use at your
own risk.

There is now an ansible version of Back Me Up under the bmu repository: http://githib.com/trinic/bmu
